Code of Conduct

The primary purpose of MAGFest is for the attendees to have fun. To make this happen, MAGFest INC has established certain rules of conduct. These rules were created to ensure the behavior of any one individual or group of attendees does not disturb the enjoyment of another attendee, nor detract from the relaxed and comfortable atmosphere of the festival. MAGFest welcomes everyone; however, the festival's management reserves the right to deny or revoke the attendance of any individual, at any time, for any reason. This action may be undertaken when an individual's presence or behavior causes significant interference with festival operations or adversely affects the organization's relationship with its guests or with its venue. MAGFest INC also reserves the right to amend these rules at any time without prior or posted notice. If you have any questions, please contact the festival operations staff for assistance.

Anyone who accepts a MAGFest badge agrees to indemnify and hold harmless MAGFest and MAGFest INC from any claim for personal injuries or other damages or equity arising out of any individual's activities at MAGFest, even if such injury or damage is caused by negligence by or on the part of MAGFest INC.

General Rating of the Festival and Public Decorum

MAGFest prides itself on presenting an atmosphere that is comfortable for video game fans of all ages and from all lifestyles, as such MAGFest attendees are expected to act accordingly. All festival areas are considered "PG-15" at all times, with the exception of events or exhibits that are specifically noted to be inappropriate for minors. Access to these activities is monitored by MAGFest Security staff.

Attendance By Minors

MAGFest strives to maintain an environment that is safe and enjoyable for attendees of all ages. MAGFest cannot take responsibility for the actions of individual attendees. Nor will MAGFest assume responsibility for minors. A minor is defined as a person under 18 years of age who has not been legally emancipated from his or her parents. All minors must present a signed and notarized statement (available on MAGFest's web page or from the registration department) indicating parental permission to attend without an escort. In the event of a signed waiver, neither MAGFest nor MAGFest INC will assume any responsibility, legal or otherwise, over any minor. Even with such permission, minors may not attempt to attend any events intended for mature audiences unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.

In the event that a minor enters the festival under false pretenses or by forging documentation, MAGFest has no choice but to remand the minor in question immediately to the custody of the local police.

Personal Property

You must check in any equipment brought for MAGFest use. Equipment includes, but is not limited to consoles, computers, musical instruments, TVs, games, and projectors. MAGFest may store attendee-supplied equipment and accompanying items but will not be held accountable in any way for them. MAGFest attendees leave all equipment at their own risk. Please note that any equipment intended for public use may be subject to normal wear and tear. At check-in, attendees will be required to label each piece of equipment with a code tied to their badge number. To retrieve checked-in equipment it will be necessary to present an ID and attendee badge. No equipment will be released to any persons refusing to present the aforementioned articles.

MAGFest reserves the right to inspect all items coming into and out of MAGFest festival areas. MAGFest is not responsible for the contents of attendees' systems as there is a possibility of them spreading malware or otherwise affecting other equipment adversely. MAGFest and MAGFest INC may not be held responsible for any equipment damaged or otherwise affected by other attendees' equipment. MAGFest also reserves the right to remove any suspicious equipment to preserve the safety of other equipment.

Weapons Policy

Prop weapons are welcome but must be checked in with security promptly upon arrival. Sharp corners, metal rods, or any other elements of weapons that may be dangerous to others will not be allowed. If constructing a prop please err on the side of caution, or contact us ahead of time for approval.

No real weapons, or any item that can be easily mistaken for a weapon, may be carried either openly or concealed at any time in festival space, regardless of any concealed carry permits. An exception will be made for folding pocketknives without double-edged blades that are no longer than four inches. If a prop weapon or folding pocketknife is held or used in a threatening way, it will be considered a weapon. On such occasion, a staff member may take any reasonable measures to ensure the continued safety of MAGFest attendees, which could include remanding the attendee in question immediately to the custody of the local police. These policies are enforced at all times.

Posting Of Announcements, Fliers, Etc.

MAGFest provides a message board near the registration desk where attendees may post messages, place announcements for get-togethers, etc. The staff reserves the right to remove any posted materials that are considered inappropriate or may reflect poorly on the festival as a whole.

Do not affix anything to or write on the walls of the hotel or the directional signs placed by MAGFest, including in the elevators. Hotel staff will remove any unauthorized postings on sight.

Sales of Merchandise

The offering for sale of any merchandise at the festival may be undertaken only in the Marketplace area or by special arrangement with the MAGFest staff. All sales will be governed by the rules applicable to the Marketplace approved vendors. Anyone wishing to sell goods or merchandise must first obtain pre-approval from MAGFest INC. Please note that it is illegal to sell merchandise or services in any area of the hotel not designated for such activity. Such actions constitute "illegal solicitation," and may result in the perpetrator being removed from hotel grounds.

Personal Conduct in Festival Areas and in Hotel Public Areas

There is no smoking or vaping in any portion of the hotel. Our hosts respectfully request that those who step outside to smoke kindly refrain from standing directly in front of any of the entrances, as the smoke is carried inside. Please take notice of posted signs.

Please remember that you are a guest of the hotel, and that there may be other guests staying or dining at the hotel who are not attendees of the festival. Please maintain a level of noise appropriate to the time and place. We expect everyone to cooperate fully with MAGFest staff, hotel staff, and any local security or law enforcement personnel. "Disorderly conduct" includes any fighting, any inappropriate horseplay, or any actions that may disturb or disrupt of any festival or hotel functions. Disorderly conduct may result in revocation of your badge.

No items of any kind, including paper airplanes, gum, or spit may be thrown or dropped from the hotel or its adjoining patios. No water pistols, silly string, or any other projectile-type toy may be used in any public area of the hotel.

No sleeping in the lobby or hotel hallways is allowed. MAGFest is reasonably tolerant if you nod off at your computer, but you may not use festival areas as a replacement for a hotel room. MAGFest reserves the right to remove a sleeping participant from a festival room.

Attendees must not attempt to cross any barriers (such as curtains or stanchions) without being accompanied by a MAGFest staff member. Crossing such a barrier or otherwise entering an area that is off-limits to our attendees may result in suspension of your attendance and removal from the festival.

If you are utilizing a third-party service (such as Discord or Twitch) to access MAGFest content, you must abide by the Terms of Service and Community Guidelines of that service. If you violate a third-party service's guidelines, MAGFest may remove you from that online space temporarily or permanently at its discretion.

Harassment

MAGFest is dedicated to providing a safe, welcoming, and harassment-free festival experience for everyone. This protection is all-encompassing, and covers all characteristics, including, but not limited to a person's: sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, color, religion, national origin, age, political affiliation, social aptitude, speech impediments, gaming platform preference, skill in fighting games, or enjoyment of Japanese anime. Anyone from any lifestyle is welcome at MAGFest, as long as they do not intentionally do any action that hinders the enjoyment of other attendees. Harassment of any kind, including but not limited to: physical assault, sexual assault, sexual harassment, battery, deliberate intimidation, stalking, harassing photography or recording, or unwelcome physical attentions, will not be tolerated.

If a person says "no" or asks you to leave them alone, you must do so. Do not follow them or attempt to disrupt their festival experience in any way. If you continue to provide unwelcome attention to another attendee, you may have your badge revoked without refund, you may be removed from the premises, and you may be barred from attending future MAGFest events. Please understand that, regardless of whether the behavior in question amounts to a violation of the law, it may be considered harassment and a violation of this policy.

If an individual stalks, harasses, or attempts to assault you at a MAGFest event, please report that individual to a member of the event staff as soon as possible, and appropriate action will be taken. If you witness harassment occurring, please encourage the victim to report it to event staff.

This prohibition against harassment applies to not only attendees, but also everyone employed by MAGFest, volunteer staff, guests, panelists, and hotel employees. All attendees should feel as though they can report harassment regarding any person associated with MAGFest, regardless of that person's position. No retaliation by MAGFest employees or volunteer staff will be tolerated.

MAGFest staff will be happy to help participants contact hotel/venue security or local law enforcement, provide escorts, or otherwise assist those experiencing harassment to feel safe at MAGFest.

Any and all information relating to the victim's claim of harassment will be treated by MAGFest as confidential unless otherwise required by law, overriding public health and safety concerns, or authorized by the parties in question.

We are not responsible for mediating any interpersonal problems that arose between individual attendees outside of our events. Thus, we can take no action to prevent a person from attending the festival unless that person has made a specific and credible threat toward the festival itself. If you feel that a threat exists against your person, we advise you to seek a restraining order against the individual in question and to present it to our security in advance of the festival at security@magfest.org. If you obtain a restraining order against someone prior to the event and you know that they are attending the event, please provide this information to us so that we may prevent the other person from registering and attending. If you are unable to obtain a restraining order, we recommend avoiding that individual, and reporting them to security immediately if they violate this harassment policy during the event so that appropriate action may be taken. Conversely, any attempt to have an innocent person removed from the festival by falsely accusing them will be treated as an act of harassment and dealt with appropriately. The responsibility for settling interpersonal disputes lies solely with the individuals involved. MAGFest will not tolerate being used as a leveraging point in such disputes.

Substance Abuse

The sale or distribution of any illegal or controlled substances is prohibited at MAGFest. Any individual found distributing such substances will be removed and reported directly to the local authorities. MAGFest asks that alcoholic beverages be consumed in the privacy of a hotel room and not taken into any festival spaces.

Please note an important caveat involving minors: Anyone knowingly or unknowingly providing alcohol or aiding others in providing alcohol to anyone under the age of 21 will be guilty of a felony and will be turned over to the local authorities. It is the sole responsibility of persons serving alcohol in room parties to ensure that every person in attendance is over the age of 21, regardless of whether the host or any party attendees are drinking alcohol. Anyone caught drinking under the age of 21 is guilty of a Class 1 Misdemeanor and may be penalized harshly. No alcohol may be consumed in MAGFest function rooms.

Use of Video or Audio Recordings and Media Relations

For the purposes of this section MAGFest denotes any private happenings as all concerts, panels, movies, tournaments, game rooms, and any other events or areas only open to attendees with valid badges. The term "recording" means any media capturing medium or devices, audio, visual, or otherwise.

You, the videographer, retain full copyright rights to the recordings you shoot but not to the content contained within MAGFest. MAGFest INC grants you, the videographer, a creative commons share-alike non-commercial attribution license to any recordings you make at or of MAGFest. Uses beyond this license require permission from MAGFest INC. You agree to grant MAGFest a non-exclusive, sub-licensable irrevocable, perpetual, and universal license to use, distribute, perform and/or to incorporate your video in other works in any form, media, or technology, including for-profit use. For any other terms of use or licensing please see creative commons by-nc-sa 3.0.

MAGFest attendees may be photographed or otherwise recorded by other attendees. By accepting a MAGFest badge, you are consenting to having your image published. If you prefer not to have your picture taken, please inform MAGFest staff. If anyone continues to photograph or record you against your will, it will be treated as harassment (see above).

MAGFest permits (and encourages) attendees to share photographs of their festival experience on personal web pages. Video and audio recordings, however, are subject to the above provisions. Parties interested in making recordings or performances for public interest uses should contact our Events Director through the "contact us" form on http://magfest.org.

Photographs and Promotional Material Policy

Participants at MAGFest or other MAGFest, Inc. events are granting their permission to be photographed or recorded by authorized MAGFest, Inc. individuals. By purchasing your badge, you inherently grant MAGFest, Inc. permission to use such images or footage for archival or promotional purposes.

Payments to MAGFest

MAGFest accepts cash and credit card payments through our registration system. We will attempt to resolve any dispute involving a credit card payment to MAGFest following the tenets of good faith and fair dealing. Charge-backs (denying payment to a credit card company for a specific charge) that are made for the sole purpose of avoiding payment, made without sufficient cause, or that are made without first attempting to resolve the dispute with MAGFest may result in permanent revocation of attendance privileges and possible legal action. Attendees who have an outstanding balance due to MAGFest must settle that balance before being permitted to attend the festival. Should MAGFest need to process a refund, it must be processed on the same credit card for which the original purchase occurred. If that credit card is no longer active or not at the event, then MAGFest will issue a refund check after the event. This is a requirement in the terms of service with our credit card companies and cannot be violated. MAGFest does not accept checks or money orders of any kind, in any form. MAGFest will not be involved in any financial disputes between individual attendees, and cannot divulge information about an individual attendee to any party other than to banking officials or legal authorities acting on a legal order.

Miscellaneous Notes

The standards of conduct for MAGFest will be strictly enforced by MAGFest security volunteers who will be clearly identified as such on site. Please remember that your badges are property of MAGFest for the duration of the festival, and must be presented and/or surrendered to any Staff member requesting it. If you have any problem with any action taken by a Staff member you may take the matter to the Chief of Security or to MAGFest's Events Director by emailing security@magfest.org. We make every attempt to be fair but we cannot tolerate behavior that threatens the peace and well-being of our attendees or organization.Accessing the festival with a badge/identity that does not belong to you is a bannable offense, both for the badge loaner and for the badge user. Any disciplinary action and/or damages that occur while an individual is utilizing another individual’s badge will be attributable to the originally-badged individual as well.

MAGFest accepts no liability for actions of any kind taken by individuals in the confines of private hotel rooms. Anyone intending to host a party is strongly suggested to check for MAGFest badges on partygoers, and to deny entrance to any person who is not a member of the festival. Responsibility for incidents occurring in hotel guest rooms rests solely upon the individual in whose name the room is rented. This includes payment for any and all damage, whether caused intentionally or unintentionally (such as from hanging something on a sprinkler head. Don't do that.). Please note that if MAGFest is provided with sufficient evidence to suggest that illegal activities, particularly those that may cause harm to another person or to the well-being of the festival as a whole, will be taking place in a hotel room, we have both a civic and a moral responsibility to report such information to the appropriate authorities.

All applicable local, state, and federal laws must be obeyed while in attendance at MAGFest.

Please be reminded that these rules involve, of course, "worst-case" scenarios and are put into place to ensure the safety and comfort of our attendees. We appreciate that our attendees as a whole are rational, responsible, and respectful individuals, but recognize that there are exceptions. MAGFest is prepared to deal with any or all of the above scenarios in as rapid and efficient a manner as possible should they occur. We thank our attendees for their past cooperation and for their continued assistance in making this a safe and enjoyable experience for everyone. Have fun - just please be courteous of those around you.


Wow, you read this whole thing.

That's pretty impressive. You should, like, email us to let us know you read this whole thing. We'd be very curious to know who has actually done this. Or maybe volunteer? That would be cool too. Bye.

