Gramps Did Smack Me Around A Bit Too Much, But He Never Abandoned Me.

When You Lose To Someone Smaller Than You, It Destroys Your Soul

Listen Up. I Am A God.

This Place Is Full Of Beautiful Ladies.

Stop That Crying! And You Snap Out Of It For Crying Out Loud! We're Gonna Train Now!

Do You Really Think I'd Fall Victim To One Of Your Pissant Headbutts?

Maybe You Should Stay Asleep The Whole Time.

Use Your Head, Not Just Spirit.

So You Were Carrying Such A Cute Girl With You... You Were Carrying Such A Cute Girl With You Every Single Day... And Going About Your Journey With Such Joy... Give Me Back The Blood I Bled For You!

First, Worship And Praise Me! We'll Discuss That Other Thing Later!

Go further! If you're a man. If you call yourself a man! There's no other way to go but forward!

Feel the rage, The powerful, pure rage of not being able to forgive will become your unswerving drive to take action.

The weak have no rights or choices. Their only fate is to be relentlessly crushed by the strong!

I swear your big brother will save you no matter what!

Killing humans is… unforgivable.

The bond between Nezuko and me, can’t be severed by anyone!

Anyone who hurts my sister… Hashira or not, I won’t let you get away with it.

No matter how many people, you may lose, you have no choice but to go on living. No matter how devastating, the blows maybe.

Those who regretted their own actions. I would never trample over them. Because demons were once human, too. Just like me, they were human, too.

Don’t wimp out! Save him! Save him! Save him! I”m not powerless anymore! Move!!

I can do it I know I can do it. I’m the guy who gets it done broken bones or not… No matter what… I can do it! I can fight!

Head on battles are simple. Whoever’s stronger and faster wins.

Use your head not just your spirit. Think think think.

Breathe all the way into my fingertips! Meditation boosts concentration.

Look straight ahead. Rouse yourself! Give it all you’ve got Tanjiro! Give it all you’ve got!

Work at it. All I can do is work hard! That’s the story of my life!

No! Because once I’ve mastered it myself, I can teach them, too!

I’ve… been protecting it… because you… said that… this thing is more important to you… than your own life.





